= Cdo.{rb,py} - Use Ruby/Python to access the power of CDO

This package contains the module Cdo, which implements a ruby/python style access to
the Climate Data operators CDO. CDO is a command line tool for processing
gridded data. Its main focus if climate data, but it can by used for other
purposes to. It accepts input formats GRIB1, GRIB2, NetCDF and several Fortran
binary formats.

== Installation

=== Ruby Installation

Download and install cdo.rb via rubygems:

   gem install cdo

=== Python Installation

Download and install cdo.py via pypi:

   pip install cdo

=== Requirements

Cdo.{rb,py} requires a working CDO binary, but has not special requirement to
ruby or python. For returning multi-dimensional arrays (numpy for python,
narray for ruby) addtional netcdf-io modules are needed. These are scipy for
python and ruby-netcdf for ruby.

== Usage

=== Run operators

The Ruby module can be used directly after loading it. For python an instance has to be created first

   cdo = Cdo()

* File information
    
    Cdo.infov(:input => ifile)       (ruby version)
    Cdo.showlevels(:input => ifile)

    cdo.infov(input=ifile)        (python verson)
    cdo.showlevels(input=ifile)

* Operators with user defined regular output files

    Cdo.timmin(:input => ifile ,:output => ofile) (ruby version)
    cdo.timmin(input = ifile,output = ofile) (python version)

* Use temporary output files

    tminFile = Cdo.timmin(:input => ifile) (ruby version)
    tminFile = cdo.timmin(input = ifile) (python version)

* Operators with options

    Cdo.remap([gridfile,weightfile],:input => ifile, :output => ofile) (ruby version)
    cdo.remap([gridfile,weightfile],input => ifile, output => ofile) (python version)

* Set global CDO options

   Cdo.copy(:input => ifile, :output => ofile,:options => "-f nc4") (ruby version)
   cdo.copy(input = ifile, output = ofile,options = "-f nc4") (python version)

* Return multi-dimension arrrays

   temperatures = Cdo.fldmin(:input => ifile,:returnArray => true).var('T').get      (ruby version)
   temperatures = cdo.fldmin(input = ifile,:returnArray = True).variables['T'][:] (python version)

More examples can be found in test/cdo-examples.rb and on the homepage: https://code.zmaw.de/projects/cdo/wiki/Cdo%7Brbpy%7D

=== Tempfile helpers

Cdo.{rb,py} includes a simple tempfile wrapper, which make live easier, when write your own scripts

== Support, Issues, Bugs, ...

Please use the forum or ticket system of CDOs official web page: http://code.zmaw.de/projects/cdo

== Changelog
* 1.2.1:
   - new return option: Masked Arrays
     if the new keyword returnMaArray is given, its value is taken as variable
     name and a masked array wrt to its FillValues is returned
     contribution by Alex Loew
   - error handling: return stderr in case of non-zero return value + raise exception
     contribution from Estanislao Gonzalez
   - autocompletion and built-in documentation through help() for interactive use
     contribution from Estanislao Gonzalez
* 1.2.0: API change:
   - Ruby now uses the same keys like the python interface, i.e. :input and :output
     instead of :in and :out
   - :returnArray will accept a variable name, for which the multidimesional
     array is returned
* 1.1.0: API change:
   - new option :returnCdf : will return the netcdf file handle, which was formerly
     done via :returnArray
   - new options :force : if set to true the cdo call will be run even if the given
     output file is presen, default: false

== License

Cdo.{rb,py} makes use of the GPLv2D License, see COPYING

---

= Other stuff

Author::   Ralf Mueller <stark.dreamdetective@gmail.com>
Requires:: CDO version 1.5.x
License::  Copyright 2011-2012 by Ralf Mueller
           Released under GPLv2 license.  See the COPYING
           file included in the distribution.
